>> Mike North: And let's proceed
to the next topic.
And let's proceed to the next topic.
Once we start sort of unraveling this,
we'll see that we kind of have to
sort of fix some other things.
But essentially, we should only
end up adding comments here and
we should in the end have some
assurance around the various types of
things that can be passed in due
functions within this piece of code.
>> Mike North: So just to show you
what we started out with here,
I went to my compiler configuration,
my type script compiler configuration,
and I added these two lines here,
check JavaScript.
Otherwise, it would just work
with our type script files.
It would ignore all of the JavaScript and
then no implicit any.
We're saying,
do not tolerate ImplicitAny anymore,
just bust us whenever you
can't figure something out.
And now it's our job to go in and to be
either explicit about the any type or
to maybe define something
that's not the Any type.
Usually it's the latter
that you're interested in.
So with that, let's jump in.
I'm gonna start with the listener
support module here.
And let's
proceed to
the next topic.
So we start from the bottom up,
in general.
Okay so, the parameter listener
has an implicit any type.
And that error actually is
happening in two places.
And then this payload has an any type.
So up here, at the top of this module,
I'm going to define a new type.
And we're gonna say that this is one
of the listeners we're gonna register.
And it's gonna be a function that
receives as an argument an object.
That covers an array, by the way.
An array is a special flavor
of JavaScript object.
So it's a function that
receives an object and
it returns a void,
that means it returns nothing.
I'm gonna actually opt for
the arrow syntax like this
function that takes an object as a single
argument, and it returns nothing.
It would be like it returns undefined,
right?
And we'll call this a listener.
Now we can go down to these areas here and
say, I'm going to take in a param of
type listener in this last argument here,
that's sort of the name of the parameter.
So that's basically to
say it's this one here,
it would have more, would mean more
if we took multiple arguments.
Do the same thing here,
and those two went away.
So now we've got this payload
that has an implicit any type.
We'll do this one in line.
>> Mike North: Type.
>> Mike North: And
the type here is gonna just be data.
It takes, like the value is
this object array is here.
Let's see, why is it complaining?
>> Mike North: I think the C should be
above it or something, let's try that.
Sorry there we go, param.
So now if we hover over
this payload you can see,
hey it's not just like a random thing.
It is an object that has
a property on it called data and
the value can be pretty much anything.
And as we iterate over this,
you can see there are my listeners.
That's an any array.
I think it can infer enough there.
It's not using any implicit anys.
Let's see what happens if
we do something like this.
>> Mike North: Type,
>> Mike North: Something like that and
we go down here.
>> Mike North: There we go.
So now, this is not just an array of anys,
it's an array
of functions that take an object
as an argument and return nothing.
And so even when we're in here, like this
thing here, we know what it is, right?
>> Mike North: So x, it's telling us
basically it takes an object in there and
returns a void.
>> Mike North: All right, so here,
why are we complaining about this?
Object implicitly has an any type.
Fine, we'll say it's an array.
>> Mike North: We'll say
it's an array of anys.
>> Mike North: Let's see, items, we'll
give it a name, something like that, yes?
>> Speaker 2: I had
another question in chat.
>> Mike North: So
if you're in my libraries,
>> Mike North: If my libraries.d.ts is not
published but you do have it, do you just
place it at the root of your project?
So if you have in the root of a project
for your type definitions an index.d.ts,
that will get picked up automatically.
So if you have that and
it's part of your mpm module,
consumers of your mpm module will
pick up on those type definitions.
If the file has a different name,
you may need to finesse the compiler
configuration a little bit and you'll
see I've got this paths file down here.
So let me get rid of this,
it's paths within compiler options and
that's where we would say,
okay, I'm gonna ask for
this muicss which is this little
mini material design library.
But here's where you can find the modules
of interest, and that sort of,
this mapping is used whenever you
import and something is present here.
That will be used instead
of the normal conventions.
>> Mike North: All right, so
let's keep plugging away here.
We've got now three files,
we'll focus on those.
Let's start with the grocery item store.
So here,
>> Mike North: Data
item has implicitly has an any type.
So you've got update items and
wherever this is used
like given an array of grocery items,
add new ones.
So this given an array of grocery items,
like that sounds like
an array of something called like that.
So we need to define this up top.
And we will augment it as necessary.
So here we've got update categories,
we've got some JSON data coming back,
and in this case, like item.
This is a good example for
me to show a case where there's
something sort of deep in our code here.
I happen to know that this
here is an object that
just has a category property on it,
that's it.
>> Mike North: Something like that.
>> Mike North: We need one more set of
braces so the first set of braces says,
I will define my type here and
the second one says, I am an object.
And still has the implicit any type.
>> Mike North: You know what we could do,
there's a different way to do this,
arguably a better way
than what I just did.
So we'll say categories.
We're gonna cast that,
>> Mike North: Or
define that as an array of those things.
>> Mike North: Something like that.
So now we've got categories and
category names.
And we've sort of said,
based on this end point,
I know my structure's gonna be this.
And here's an example where it might be
overblown to create a type definition that
says please expect an array of
objects that have a property
on them that's a string, that's under
the property key called category.
>> Mike North: And now that's happy.
So categories,
that was known to be a string array, and
now we've got that as a string array,
everything's happy.
Okay, so here, on items updating, updated,
it's passing something into fire.
Fire wants an any array.
So now we're getting into
a situation where really we just
need need an array-like thing.
We don't necessarily need a mutable
array like capital A array.
So if we go in here and
we change this a little bit.
>> Mike North: Bring back any is not
[SOUND]
>> Mike North: Actually
this will work just as well.
So this.items is a read only array.
>> Mike North: So read only array and
this one wants to receive an any array,
you could do it like this.
We're gonna create a union type here,
so this is an or operator.
>> Mike North: No, still don't like it?
Push is missing from read only array.
All right, let's come back to that one.
>> Mike North: Okay, items implicitly has
an any type because with an empty array,
there's no way to know exactly
what we expect to put in here.
But, I happen to know
this is a cart store,
so we're gonna have an array with
something we'll call a cart item.
>> Mike North: We have to go
define that up at the top here.
>> Mike North: Wrong.
>> Mike North: Okay, and now it's saying,
so this is the same issue as before.
We're gonna leave that in place.
>> Mike North: Actually,
that's all we have left here.
So argument of type, read only array any
is not assignable to parameter of type
>> Mike North: array double bracket.
>> Mike North: Cuz push is missing
in the type read only array.
Now, I don't really need
to push anything in here.
>> Mike North: So
I should be able to do this.
Now this here,
>> Mike North: Let me make sure that
I'm not just lagging behind in terms of
>> Mike North: Type checking here.
>> Mike North: I do need to
just change this up here.
Array like any and
now we're down to no problems.
So you see, this forced me to basically
go as soon as I had to deal with
an immutable array of any type,
and there were certain
situations where I was getting a read-only
array which would be, let's see.
Where is that ultimately coming from?
Item object freeze.
So this is a case where I basically said,
okay give me read only copy of this
item like consumers cannot mutate this,
you can just read it, that's it.
You cannot add,
you cannot push things into this array.
So then that forced me to go back and
basically relax constraints all the way
back to defining what a listener looks
like, so that it is ready to receive this.
Now it wouldn't have been forced to do
that in JavaScript, but his is now,
whoever consumes that code,
whoever is building listeners and
registering them, they know that
potentially the array that they get
you cannot push things into it, right?
Now my intent is clearer, right?
Because when you're adding a listener,
it has to look like this.
It's just an array-like thing and
all you're allowed to do on
an array-like thing, it doesn't have
a type definition, there it is.
It's just got a length and
you can grab things off of it.
You're not given license to use the full
spectrum of array functionality.
All you're guaranteed is you can do
that which is great because now,
it works for read only arrays as well.
Whereas otherwise,
you would find that runtime,
one array in one scenario,
it's gonna end up being read-only.
And now, the function push cannot be
found on object, whatever, whatever.
And you might have to get into
the just perfect situation for
user to discover this problem.
Whereas now, we have moved that into build
time where we said, all right, ArrayLike,
that's all we need,
everything should work fine.
It's a very low, this is a super simple,
super simple shape of an object,
just two properties.
And in this situation,
it is all that we need.
And so that's what we're gonna use.
There's no need for us to get more
specific, to say give me a mutable array.
I don't need it.
All I need is this.
>> Mike North: And
now we're done at zero problems.
So you've added type information and
as a result, our auto complete is better.
We've clearly defined the constraints that
we need in order for our code to work and
anyone else that would like,
if in a listener, you attempted to
like here, where would this work?
It would be in a listener that fires.
Where is my register happening?
I can use find symbol and file.
Actually we'll go back
to listener support.
>> Mike North: Find references.
Go here.
>> Mike North: Okay, so
when we register a listener and
we've got this item update listener here
>> Mike North: That's
where we've got this thing here.
So if we had a list of things.
>> Mike North: Then we should really,
this would have to be ArrayLike
or something for us to add this.
Cuz now we're fully in Typescript land.
But we can mix this in,
just the same.
>> Mike North: [SOUND] So
this would be, sorry,
a function that takes as
an argument an array-like thing.
No, not happy?
>> Mike North: All right.
>> Mike North: No,
we can do it the same way.
>> Mike North: So
this would be the equivalent.
And then in here when we have,
>> Mike North: The listener
being defined, there it is.
Now we've really only got length.
That's all that's available here.
So if I tried to do list.push,
nope, not allowed.
Now without going so
far as defining that type information,
you would totally be allowed to do this.
You would've said, well it's an array.
I see it's using the word here
a mutable array is being used.
But now, to get all of our warnings down,
we had to really make all of
the static analysis cases
that could be uncovered work.
And so, we've tightened it up quite a bit.
All right, so hopefully,
I've made a pretty compelling case for
adding type information
to your JavaScript.
Let me make a quick commit here.
And this is,
let's make sure we actually work here.
And we still do so
these are errors that are left over
>> Mike North: I wanna be in
>> Mike North: Git stash, great.
>> Mike North: Little more advanced than
what I'd wanna do in,
>> Mike North: In the UI for git here.
>> Mike North: Did I pop?
>> Mike North: There you go.
>> Mike North: And
let's proceed to the next topic.
And let's proceed to the next topic.